KNIME 
KNIME [naim] is a user-friendly graphical workbench for the entire analysis process: data access, data transformation, initial investigation, powerful predictive analytics, visualisation and reporting. The open integration platform provides over 1000 modules (nodes), including those of the KNIME community and its extensive partner network.
KNIME can be downloaded onto the desktop and used free of charge.
KNIME was developed (and will continue to be expanded) by the Chair for Bioinformatics and Information Mining at the University of Konstanz, Germany. The group headed by Michael Berthold also uses KNIME for teaching and research at the University. Quite a number of new data analysis methods developed at the chair are integrated in KNIME. Let us know if you are looking for something in particular, not all of those modules are part of the standard KNIME release just yet.
The KNIME base version already incorporates hundreds of processing nodes for data I/O, preprocessing and cleansing, modeling, analysis and data mining as well as various interactive views, such as scatter plots, parallel coordinates and others. It integrates all analysis modules of the well known Weka data mining environment and additional plugins allow R-scripts to be run, offering access to a vast library of statistical routines.
KNIME is based on the Eclipse platform and, through its modular API, easily extensible. When desired, custom nodes and types can be implemented in KNIME within hours thus extending KNIME to comprehend and provide first-tier support for highly domain-specific data. This modularity and extensibility permits KNIME to be employed in commercial production environments as well as teaching and research prototyping settings. If you would like to read a more detailed description of the software, please download the KNIME White Paper.
KNIME is released under a dual licensing scheme. The open source license (GPL) allows KNIME to be downloaded, distributed, and used freely.
